---
layout: page
title: M1 - Searching & Sorting
permalink: /DS01/M1/
---

<div class="row"><div class="btn topic">Topic - 01 - Data Mining Introduction</div></div>
<div class="row"><div class="btn text" markdown="1">

<div class="btn name">01 - Data Management and Exploration</div>
- **Data Collection:** Importance of gathering diverse data across domains.  
- **Data Sensing:** Techniques for acquiring data through various sensors.  
- **Data Sharing:** The necessity for efficient data exchange mechanisms.  
- **Upper Level Analysis:** Support for complex data analysis and insights extraction.  
- **Efficiency and Effectiveness:** Critical metrics for evaluating data handling processes.  

<div class="btn name">02 - System Design and Algorithm Development</div>
- **System Resources:** Utilizing different resources for data management.  
- **Data Coordination:** Strategies for efficient data retrieval and usage.  
- **Algorithm Design:** Importance of intelligent algorithms for better outcomes.  
- **Applications Relevance:** Ensuring solutions are applicable to real-world scenarios.  
- **Interdisciplinary Collaboration:** The role of teamwork across domains for optimal results.

<div class="btn name">03 - Real-World Applications and Insights</div>
- **Vehicle Sensing:** Using onboard diagnostics and mobile phones for data collection.  
- **Operation Modes:** Classifying vehicle operations for efficiency and emissions modeling.  
- **Group Dynamics:** Understanding social ties and preferences for event planning.  
- **Spatial Temporal Analysis:** Utilizing time and space data for prediction and modeling.  
- **Anomaly Detection:** Identifying outliers for significant insights, such as fraud detection.  
- **Recommendation Systems:** Automated processes to personalize user experiences.  
- **Cross-Domain Relevance:** Bridging insights across different applications for broader understanding.
</div></div>

<div class="row"><div class="btn topic">Topic - 02 - Data Mining Four Views</div></div>
<div class="row"><div class="btn text" markdown="1">

<div class="btn name">01 - Data View</div>
- Volume: Scale of data from millions to billions of data points.  
- Variety: Mix of different data types and how to integrate them.  
- Velocity: Speed of data generation and required analysis response time.  
- Veracity: Quality and trustworthiness of data.  
- Value: The ultimate goal to derive value through data mining. 

<div class="btn name">02 - Application View</div>
- Business Intelligence: Market analysis and targeted advertising based on customer data.  
- Healthcare and Medical Research: Patient data analysis for diagnosis and treatment optimization.  
- Engineering and Environmental Studies: Data-driven design and environmental monitoring.  
    - e.g., Air pollution analysis with sensor data.  
    - e.g., Monitoring marine life through acoustic sensing.  
- Security: Surveillance and anomaly detection for physical and digital security.  
- Government and Urban Planning: Data utilization for infrastructure development and traffic management.  
- Education: Analyzing learning patterns to improve educational strategies.

<div class="btn name">03 - Knowledge View</div>
- Frequent Pattern Analysis: Identifying regularly occurring patterns.  
- Classification: Categorizing data into predefined classes.  
- Prediction: Forecasting numerical values for continuous data.  
- Clustering: Grouping data points without predefined labels based on similarity.  
- Anomaly Detection: Identifying unusual data points.  
- Trend and Evolution Analysis: Observing data changes over time.  
    - e.g., Using Google Trends for visualizing and analyzing search query fluctuations.
</div></div>

<div class="row"><div class="btn topic">Topic - 03 - Data Mining Pipeline</div></div>
<div class="row"><div class="btn text" markdown="1">

<div class="btn name">01 - Introduction to Data Mining Pipeline</div>
- **1. Understanding the Data Mining Pipeline**  
    - Key Components: Modeling, data understanding, preprocessing, data warehousing, evaluation.  
    - Iterative Process: Highlighting the need for revisiting steps to refine the data mining process.
- **2. Data Understanding**  
    - Initial Assessment: Identifying data types, attributes, and their meanings.  
    - Analytical Measures: Employing statistical analysis and visualization to comprehend data characteristics.  
    - Similarity Measures: Evaluating data objects for similarity and dissimilarity to detect patterns or anomalies.
- **3. Data Preprocessing**  
    - Quality Issues: Addressing errors, missing values, and inconsistencies.  
    - Cleaning and Integration: Enhancing data quality and combining data sources for analysis.  
    - Transformation and Reduction: Modifying data to facilitate comparison and analysis while minimizing dataset size.
- **4. Data Warehousing**  
    - Data Management: Organizing data to support analysis, separate from operational systems.  
    - Data Cube and OLAP: Utilizing multidimensional data management and online analytical processing for efficient data querying.  
    - Architecture: Designing the warehouse to efficiently store, process, and retrieve data for mining tasks.
- **5. Data Modeling**  
    - Techniques: Applying classifiers, neural networks, and other algorithms for specific analysis tasks.  
    - Analysis Types: Including frequent pattern analysis, classification, prediction, clustering, anomaly detection, and trend analysis.
- **6. Pattern Evaluation**  
    - Criteria for Interest: Newness, validity, applicability, and explainability of patterns.  
    - Performance Metrics: Accuracy, error rates, false positives/negatives, efficiency, and latency for model evaluation and selection.
    
<div class="btn name">02 - Data Mining Examples</div>
- **1. Analytical Reasoning in Data Mining**  
    - Importance: Emphasizes the need for data scientists to apply analytical reasoning beyond using tools and algorithms.  
    - Decision-Making: Involves making informed choices among various data mining techniques based on problem specifics.
- **2. Business Intelligence Applications**  
    - Customer Preferences: Analyzing data to understand and predict customer likes and dislikes.  
    - Fraud Detection: Identifying patterns that differ from the norm to detect suspicious activities.
- **3. Cyberspace Data Mining**  
    - Social Media Analysis: Studying user interactions and preferences on online platforms.  
    - Security Threats: Detecting cyber attacks by identifying anomalies in user behavior or data traffic.
- **4. Transportation Electrification Study**  
    - Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles (PHEVs): Analyzing driving and vehicle performance data to understand usage patterns.  
    - Battery Degradation Modeling: Predicting battery capacity degradation over time based on driving data.
- **5. Group Event Scheduling and Venue Recommendation**  
    - User and Group Analysis: Predicting user interest in events and optimal venues for group gatherings based on location familiarity and preferences.  
    - Data Types: Incorporating individual and group data, historical event information, and venue characteristics.
- **6. Remote Sensing Data Analysis**  
    - Data Management: Transforming the approach to manage and analyze spatial-temporal remote sensing data.  
    - Application Examples: Tracking melting lakes on ice sheets and identifying temperature anomalies for environmental studies.
- **7. Anomaly Detection in Environmental Data**  
    - Visualization and Automation: Using visualization to identify anomalies and developing pipelines for automated detection in large datasets.
    - Spatial-Temporal Analysis: Focusing on changes in environmental patterns over time and space.
</div></div>